---
description: ''
sidebar: 'wordpress'
prev: '/wordpress/acf/items/'
---
import Attribute from '@/components/Attribute.vue';

# ACF Fields Configuration

Since ACF version 5, ACF supports auto configuration of the fields based on JSON files that must be placed in the folder "acf-json". The adapter automatically creates this JSON files based on the custom fields you have used in your Webflow Theme. This happens for all fields, except for the repeater (so also the subfields you have used in the repeater field). So you have to manually create those fields.

Be sure to match the same slug that you have used in Webflow. For example if you have used:

<Attribute name="acf:repeater" value="my-blocks" />

The repeater field you create in ACF must have the slug **my-blocks**, and the same goes for every subfield you created in your repeater.

Better if you follow the [official documentation](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/creating-a-field-group/), if you want more details on how to create Fields Group and Fields.

The Adapter creates all the fields in a basic way and in one Fields Group for post type. If you want to modify the fields for example adding descriptions, better labels you can press on "sync available" to sync the jsons created by the adapter and modify them. If you instead want full control of the Fields (for example create multiple Fields Group, in order to show them only in some pages instead of all) you better disable the fields generated by the Adapter changing the folder that is used by ACF for Fields Sync. Fortunately, ACF provides a filter to change the folder name, so just add this snippet below to change the folder name to an non-existent one:


```php

add_filter('acf/settings/save_json', 'my_acf_json_save_point');
 
function my_acf_json_save_point( $path ) {
    
    // update path
    $path = get_stylesheet_directory() . '/my-custom-folder';
    
    
    // return
    return $path;
    
}
```

---

> ⚠️⚠️⚠️

> Where should you add snippets? There are few plugins that allows you to add snippets directly in WordPress and this is the adviced solution if you can't create your own plugin. The plugin [Code Snippets](https://it.wordpress.org/plugins/code-snippets/), it's adviced, pretty simple to use and allows you to enable/disable snippets and divide them.

