---
description: ''
sidebar: 'wordpress'
prev: '/wordpress/conversion-steps/'
next: '/wordpress/faqs/'
---

# Glossary

Here you can find a list of some of the most used terms, that you may be not familiar with

* **Excerpt**: An excerpt in WordPress is a term used for article summary An excerpt can be auto generated by a WordPress theme or by using the <!--more--> tag inside the post content. Another way to create excerpts for a WordPress post is by entering the summary of an article in Excerpt field on Post Edit screen. This field is not displayed in the post edit screen by default. To enable it a user needs to click on Screen Options button on the top right corner of post edit screen and then enable it;

* **Hooks**: In WordPress theme and development, Hooks are functions that can be applied to an Action or a Filter in WordPress. Actions and Filters in WordPress are functions that can be modified by theme and plugin developers to change the default WordPress functionality.

* **Featured Image**: The Featured Image (also known as post thumbnail) is a WordPress theme feature which allows theme developers to add support for using a representative image for posts, pages, or custom post types.

* **Post Types**: Post Types is a term used to refer to different types of content in a WordPress site. In 2003, WordPress was primarily launched as a blogging platform. Posts is a common blogging terminology that stuck with WordPress as it evolved into a robust content management system (CMS). When WordPress added different type of content, pages, they called it a different type of post hence post type. In all practical sense, post type is content type.

* **Permalinks**: Permalinks are the permanent URLs of your individual blog post or page on your WordPress site. Permalinks are also referred to as pretty links. By default, WordPress URLs use the query string format which look something like this: http://www.example.com/?p=1 However by going to Settings » Permalinks option page, you can modify the settings to change these query strings into human readable strings. (E.g: http://www.example.com/my-post-name/)

* **Slug**: Slug is the user friendly and URL valid name of a post. Inside slug you can not use spaces, accented characters, special characters or uppercase characters. E.g (My Post Name => my-post-name)

* **Shortcodes**: Shortcodes in WordPress are little bits of code that allow you to do various things with little effort. For example, a shortcode for embedding a video might look like this:
[video]

* **Taxonomy**: This term is kinda tricky and is derived from the biological classification method Linnaean taxonomy. WordPress taxonomies are used as a way to group posts and custom post types together. WordPress has two very popular taxonomies: Categories and Tags.

* **Terms**: In WordPress, terms refers to the items in a taxonomy.

* **Widgets**: In WordPress, widgets are blocks of content that you can add to your site’s sidebars, and other areas.

* **Query**: Query is a term used to describe the act of selecting, inserting, or updating data in a database. In WordPress, queries are used to access data from your MySQL database. 

* **Post Query**: Query that is used to retrieve Posts.

* **Term Query**: Query that is used to retrieve terms from a taxonomy.